Authority Records
(Compiled from Final Report submitted by Anne Uhl 7/20/02)


AUTHORITY RECORDS AND THEIR USE

In order for the online catalog to be used to retrieve all items by a given author or on a given subject, the access points must be normalized and standardized.  Authority control is the process of determining: 

      1.  The form of a name, title, or subject concept that will be used as a heading in a 	bibliographic record 
       2.  The cross references needed for that form 
       3.  The relationships between the heading and other authoritative headings. 

Authority work is documented in an authority record and stored in an authority file.  

Examples of an authority file are the Name Authority File in OCLC and the LC Authority file in DRA.  Authority files represent records of decisions made about the manner in which cataloging rules have been interpreted.  Authority headings are defined by organizations that provide officially approved terms for headings that may be used in bibliographic records.  In the United States, the Library of Congress serves as this organization.  Records for an author’s name, a subject or a title have a correct form that is established as an authority record.  Authority records serve two purposes: 

      Reference source for an established heading 
      Provides guidance for the creation of a new heading 

Authority records are created for names, subjects, uniform titles and series.  These terms may be used in records in a database as needed or can be used to send a user to another related term with the use of see and see also cross references.

Authority files online

On July 1, 2002, the Library of Congress opened a website which lists their authority files.  This includes Name Authorities, Title Authorities and Name/Title Authorities.  It also includes authorized LC Subject Heading.  This is an important tool for catalogers. Now small sites without the large five volume set of LC Subject Headings can browse and select authorized Subject Headings.  The website is:

http://authorities.loc.gov/

