Sage Library System Cataloging Policy
Page 1 of 4
- approved by Sage Library System User Council , November 20, 2012
I. Introduction:
The Sage Library System consortium is committed to developing and coordinating a database of
high-quality bibliographic records for collective use by member libraries, our library patrons and
colleagues. Maintaining the quality and integrity of each bibliographic record is an interest and a
responsibility shared by all member libraries. Bibliographic records added to the Sage database
become the shared property of the consortium.
Sage Library System emphasizes voluntary and cooperative efforts to maintain database quality,
accurate bibliographic information and elimination of duplicate records. For the integrity of the
database, Sage catalogers must comply with standards for full bibliographic records and perform
functions only according to one’s authorized permission and certification level.
Sage Library System will make reasonable efforts to facilitate training opportunities and
resources for all members. The Sage Cataloging Committee is responsible for monitoring
quality assurance, coordinating regular training, and recommending measures for policy
enforcement to the Sage User Council. Core guidance documents for catalogers include this
Cataloging Policy, the Sage Cataloging Procedures Guide and the Sage Cataloging Manual.
Only Sage certified catalogers may perform cataloging functions in the Sage Library System. In
extreme cases, Sage Library System reserves the right to restrict cataloging privileges of any
member library if the requirements of this policy are not met, including revocation of cataloging
permissions.
II. Cataloging Standards
1. Requirements
a. Any person performing permanent cataloging functions in the Sage Library
System database must obtain prior authorization from the Sage Cataloging
Committee unless operating under direct supervision of a Certified Sage
Cataloger.
b. All libraries must have someone certified at least at the “Basic” level (CAT3) in
order to add items to the Sage Library System. It is advisable to have someone
trained at the “Mid-level” (CAT2) so that a library is able to at least bring in
some of their needed records or they must make arrangements with another library
(with staff that has the appropriate level of training [CAT2 or CAT1]) to do this
for them.
c. New Sage member libraries must present cataloging qualifications to the
Cataloging Committee to certify cataloging proficiency at the CAT3 “Basic” level
of cataloger or higher within the first three (3) months after migration.
d. At least one person from each member library must monitor the Sage-Cat-group
email list.Sage Library System Cataloging Policy
Page 2 of 4
- approved by Sage Library System User Council , November 20, 2012
2. Permission Levels – CAT3, CAT2, CAT1
a. Catalogers will be certified at one of three skill levels according to proficiency.
i. CAT3 “Basic” level cataloger [barcoder]
1. Training requirements
a. Elementary understanding of Evergreen & cataloging
practices.
b. Fundamental understanding of MARC bibliographic
records and familiarity with AACR2 cataloging rules.
c. Ability to search Sage Evergreen catalog efficiently and
accurately
d. Compliance with established matching criteria for any item
types to be attached
2. Functional abilities
a. "Match & attach" - attach holdings to existing bib records
b. Edit volume & copy level data (holdings/items)
c. Does NOT import or edit bibliographic records
ii. CAT2 “Middle” level cataloger [copy cataloger]
1. Training requirements
a. Must have same basic level training as CAT3
b. Complete an advanced MARC21 training provided by
Sage, or provide documentation of equivalent
training/experience.
2. Functional abilities
a. Do everything allowed by “basic” level (CAT3) catalogers
b. Import records via Z39.50
c. Update CIP records
d. Create “stub” (placeholders) or “temp” bibliographic
records
iii. CAT1 “Certified” cataloger [full level cataloger]
1. Training requirements
a. Must have achieved CAT3 and CAT2 proficiency
b. Able to document advanced cataloging training, either from
college level courses or through a recognized professional
training service, as approved by the Sage Cataloging
Committee.
2. Functional abilities
a. Do everything allowed by CAT2 “mid-level” “copy
catalogers”
b. Import records via batch loading
c. Overlay existing “stub”/“temp” bibliographic records
d. Overlay existing bibliographic records
e. Create original bibliographic records
f. Add new fields to bibliographic records Sage Library System Cataloging Policy
Page 3 of 4
- approved by Sage Library System User Council , November 20, 2012
g. Merge bibliographic records
h. Update bibliographic records
i. Delete existing bibliographic records
j. Delete fields in existing bibliographic records prior to or
after import
III. Cataloging Support
1. Regional Cataloging Mentors
Sage Library System has volunteer regional cataloging mentors who serve as “go-to” people for
cataloging questions/issues in each area. The mentors will coordinate cataloging training and
quality in their regions as time permits.
IV. Permanent Record Standards
Sage Library System is committed to maintaining a database of high quality bibliographic
records for collective use by member libraries.
1. All bibliographic records contributed to the Sage catalog must contain specific mandatory
elements and meet a minimum level of completeness.
2. Bibliographic records must:
a. Use MARC Format for Bibliographic Data
b. Contain core level fields as defined by Library of Congress’s BIBCO Core
Record Standards
c. Comply with AACR2R (and LCRI rules)
d. Not be imported unless 1) there is no existing matching record as defined in the
Procedures Guide or 2) the existing matched record is being overlaid.
e. Use standard GMD terminology
f. Contain only bibliographic-level data, not holding specific information
g. Contain at least one Library of Congress Subject Heading (LCSH) if item is nonfiction
h. Be compared with the item in hand
3. Temporary brief records will not be subject to the same standards as full records,
including content, style, and authority work.
V. Maintenance standards
Member libraries are expected to:
1. Keep holdings current
2. Designate a staff member to monitor the Sage-Cat-Group email list
3. Resolve problems as reported to them by the Sage Cataloging Committee and mentors
4. Respond to staffing surveys conducted by the Sage Cataloging Committee Sage Library System Cataloging Policy
Page 4 of 4
- approved by Sage Library System User Council , November 20, 2012
5. Maintain awareness of current Sage cataloging policy and procedures
VI. Communications
1. The Sage Cataloging Committee will meet regularly. Regular Committee meetings are
open to the participation of all Sage members. The schedule and agenda of regular
meetings shall be accessible to Sage member libraries.
2. All notices coming from the Sage Cataloging Committee will be given via the Sage-CatGroup
email list and documented on the Sage Wikispaces.
VII. Reporting and resolving problems
Inquiries or problems are generally reported directly to the library(ies) that contributed the
record(s). For an issue that may have broader implications for a union catalog, the inquiry may
be directed to the Catalog Committee Chair who will review it and follow up as appropriate.
VIII. Sanction of Privileges
1. With recommendations from the Sage Cataloging Committee, the Sage User Council may
restrict or revoke cataloging privileges of any individual or Sage member library if work
repeatedly fails to meet with the established standards set by the consortium or if the
cataloging training requirements are not maintained.
2. Cataloging privileges will not be sanctioned prior to consultation with the affected
library’s director, other cataloging staff, and if necessary, the library board of directors.
3. Libraries under cataloging sanctions may appeal for restoration:
a. At any regular or special meeting of the Cataloging Committee
b. At any regular or special meeting of the Sage User Council
4. Restoration of privileges may be granted by the Sage User Council, with
recommendations from the Cataloging Committee.
