ISBN Questions and Answers
revised 2007

What is an ISBN?
ISBN stands for International Standard Book Number – a unique identifier assigned to each edition of every published book and book-like product published internationally.  The ISBN was originally developed as a 10-digit number (ISBN-10).  In January 2007, the ISBN was redefined from a 10-digit (ISBN-10) to a 13-digit number (ISBN-13).
 
What is the purpose of an ISBN?
The purpose of the ISBN is to establish and identify one title or edition of a title from one specific publisher and it is unique to that edition, allowing for more efficient marketing of products by booksellers, libraries, universities, wholesalers and distributors.  [Be aware that some publishers reuse ISBN’s making them not so unique.]

How is the ISBN constructed?
An ISBN-10 consists of 10 digits and whenever it is printed it is preceded by the letters ISBN.  The 10-digit number is divided by hyphens into 4 parts of variable length.  The four parts of an ISBN are as follows: 1) Group or country identifier; 2) Publisher identifier; 3) Title identifier; 4) Check digit. 

An ISBN-13 contains 13 digits which are divided into five parts of variable length, each part separated by a hyphen.  The five parts of an ISBN are as follows: 1) prefix; 2) Group or country identifier; 3) Publisher identifier; 4) Title identifier; 5) Check digit. 

What do the four/five parts of the ISBN mean?  
1) 	Prefix:  The first ISBN-13’s will be prefixed by "978".  These ISBN-13’s beginning with 978 are constructed the same way as the ISBN-10 and have an equivalent ISBN-10.  When the supply of 978 numbers is exhausted the prefix will become 979.  (There will be no ISBN-10 equivalent for the ISBN-13’s beginning with 979.)

2) 	Group or Country Identifier:  This part of the ISBN identifies a national or geographic grouping of publishers that participates in the ISBN system. 

3) 	Publisher Identifier:  This part of the ISBN identifies the publisher to whom the ISBN was originally allocated.  Each publisher is allocated their publishing prefixes.  If they go beyond their initial title allotment they will be issued an additional publishing prefix.  Therefore, a publishing agency might carry several publishing prefixes.  Keep in mind, however, that as publishers buy and sell various imprints (subsidiaries of a publishing house) or parts of imprints, this part of the ISBN becomes less and less reliable as a way to identify the publisher of the title. 

4) 	Title Identifier:  This part of the ISBN identifies a particular title or edition of a title.

5) 	Check Digit:  The check digit is the single digit at the end of the ISBN that ensures that each ISBN is valid, meaning that the number is correct.  The check digits are calculated based on the numbers contained within the ISBN.  (Note: Since the numbers contained within an ISBN-10 and a matching ISBN-13 are slightly different the check digits of each will almost always differ.)  A Roman numeral X is used when 10 would occur as the check digit.

When should a new ISBN be issued?
A separate ISBN must be assigned to every title, or edition of a title by each publisher, but not to an unchanged impression or unchanged reprint of the same title in the same format by the same publisher.

Where is an ISBN located on the book?
An ISBN is printed on the lower portion of the back cover of a book above the barcode and on the copyright page.  Each format or binding must have a separate ISBN.

What is an ISSN?
International Standard Serial Number (ISSN) is the numbering system used for serial publications.  A serial is defined as any publication issued in successive parts, usually bearing numerical or chronological designations and intended to be continued indefinitely.  Serials include periodicals, year-books, and monographic series.

Can a publisher have both an ISBN and an ISSN?
Both numbering systems are used for books in a series and with annuals or biennials.  The ISBN identifies the individual book in a series or a specific year for an annual or biennial.  The ISSN identifies the ongoing series, or the ongoing annual or biennial serial.  If a publication has both, each should be printed on the copyright page.


Additional notes about ISBNs and Millennium:
Beginning with the 2006 Release Millennium has a translator that will translate an ISBN-10 to an ISBN-13 and visa versa.  This was added as a way deal with the changeover to ISBN-13’s that began in January 2007.  (It is important to note that the ISBN-10 has no equivalent to an ISBN-13 beginning with 979 and visa versa.)

Currently we are getting cover images of items displayed in the WebOPAC from Amazon through the use of the ISBN.  Unfortunately it only seems to work off the ISBN-10 at the current time, so in order for the cover image to show up in the WebOPAC the ISBN-10 needs to be the first listed 020.  (It is possible to move this up the list without retyping it by placing your cursor on the one you want to move and using the “Move Up” or “Move to Top of Group” found in the “Edit” menu.)
