STANDARDS FOR MATCHING TO DATABASE RECORDS
Developed by Cataloging Work Team, 2002

ISBN
	This is a good way to search to find a possible match in the database.  Every other part of the record must then match to accept the record.  Sometimes ISBN’s may match what is in the book but the edition will still be a mismatch. Examples are: Large print books and book club editions. Then search by title.

TITLE/AUTHOR
	Title must match exactly up to the first five words. Also check the subtitle.  If present, it will be after the colon.  Following the forward slash is a statement of responsibility for the item.  It may be the author, an editor or a corporate body.  This name will also be listed in another tag as the author, alternate author or corporate body.  

IMPRINT
	This tag lists place of publication, publisher and date of publication.
Dates may not be the best indicator of a match because some catalogers inadvertently enter the date of printing rather than first publication date. However, if the dates do match, and the publisher is the same,  that is a good indication for matching.  If you have the item in hand, be sure you are looking at publishing date rather than date of printing.  The copyright date, if present, indicates the original date of publication, no matter what the publication date of the item in hand.  Later printings of an edition are a match; the printing date may or may not be part of the 260 field.

	Place of publication should match if publishing dates are alike.  If there is a later printing date, the place and publisher may be different.  If that place and publisher are a subgroup of the original publisher or bought out the original publisher; and if the edition essentially comes from the same set of printing plates, such that pages are completely interchangeable between them, then it is the same edition.  If it is a completely different publisher from the same set of printing plates, this would be a different edition, noted by “Reprint.  Originally published: [place] : [Publisher] ; [date]” in the 500 field.

PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION
	If the page numbers match, great.  If they don’t, it may be due to clerical error. For example, AACR2 states that the page number listed is the last page printed in the book.  If two or three pages follow, some catalogers may incorrectly add these to the last printed page number.  If you see numbers that are very close and all other criteria match, you should assume you have a match.  If numbers vary by more than a few, you probably don’t have a match.  The best example of this, where everything is the same except the number of pages, is a book club edition put out simultaneously by the publisher(s).  These editions are smaller, the type is smaller, the number of pages is usually smaller; this means that one cannot replace a page of one with the other, and in replacement the book club edition is significantly less valuable than the trade edition.  These editions should not be placed on the same record. 
